# Surfing: Hold Down

We've been having those last large swells after the winter. Sometimes waves
would come in those pretty gnarly 4-5ft tall chunks. They look literally like
huge mountains of water up close.

So, I went surfing the other day and I didn't look for the swell that carefully.
And as I was approaching the break point, a large set came in. A spectacularly
nice and clean 4+ ft tall chunk broke right on top of me and dragged me to the
bottom. It was probably 3 meters deep in there and it made me hit the sand bunk.

It's a bit of a weird state when a wave like that holds you down. It's like being
locked in a huge washing machine. It's pretty turbulent down there and there is
not much you can do about it, but hold your breath and wait for the water to
stop swirling so you could bubble up to the surface.

It is a special type of patience. The one where being impatient is not really
an option. Because well, you will drown if you try to kick your way out of it.

Life's been kind of that wave hold down lately. The company I worked for got
liquidated 1 day before the paycheck leaving ~20 employees hanging in the air.
My visa status hit a few complications when stability of my situation is the
most crucial.

I feel like surfing taught me a bit about those situations when life holds you
down. I didn't freak out much. I just held my breath for couple of weeks until
the worst of it passed and then I let it bring me up to the surface again.

It is this state of mind that whatever turbulence you're going through will
eventually pass that keeps me afloat those days. And I feel like surfing helped
me really embroil this as a natural skill in me.

Go figure.
