# Surfing: It's All About Timing

Surfing is a bit weird in this sense. It's all about timing. And it is not just
about timing the waves. You need to time your schedule tightly, wake up at 6:45,
15 minutes get your shit together and pack a bag. Run to the car and hit the
road before the morning traffic kicks in. Get to the shore before all the good
parking lots are taken. Quickly go into the water before crowds come in. Time
your paddle out to fit between sets. And all that before you even see a wave.

And then the actual game begins. Position yourself correctly. Pick the right
wave; not the one that will close out on you, not too dumpy. Paddle like a maniac.
Start a bit too early or get from too far away and it will just pass you by. Commit
to it too late and you end up in a drop right in the middle of the impact zone.

Speaking of the drop offs. I had a particularly interesting one this morning.
As I'm learning the timing, I'm getting closer and closer to a bit edgy situations.
Today I boldly committed to a rather awesome wave. But I was a bit too late with
my timing. So, I ended up on the top of a good 3-4 feet drop, nose-dived straight
down to it, and then got smacked from the top by a particularly dumpy one.

It dragged me right to the bottom. And I didn't expect it to happen this fast, so
I didn't get much air in the lungs either. An interesting experience. At times
like that you truly learn to not freak out in life and take things slowly. Also,
I think I need some training to hold my breath for longer.

On the bright side—not like the other one wasn't bright though—I think I'm finally
getting a hang on a proper paddling technique. At the beginning I was just
paddling like a kook from a windmill. I do swim in a pool quite well, but hey,
who new that paddling on a board is a different thing, right? At the beginning
I'd run out of a breath even before getting to the break. Now I have figured how
to use the whole arm, lift legs and balance the board properly. It helped a lot!

Either way, it is all good. My timing is still a bit off, but I'm slowly getting
to understand what I'm doing wrong and trying to correct it. Good times!
