# Surfing: The Back Foot

It is officially winter now. We were spared this year and is still quite warm;
13-15 degrees in the morning. Not that many sunny days though. So, now I need
to plan my days carefully, take what I can and get the most out of them.

Also, we had a huge storm a few days ago. Most of the Sydney's coast line was
roughed up pretty badly. They say there was a 13 meters tall wave at the peak of
it. So, half of the beach sand was washed on the shore. Also the storm tore off
a huge amount of kelp and it's just floating in the water now. Paddling out now
feels like swimming in a salad.

I went to see the breaks in the storm. I didn't see the peak of it, but the next
day there were 15-20 footers, breaking hard far far away in the sea. A few brave
souls apparently had a good old time in there. Not me though. I'm too young and
pretty to die.

Either way, we have a small window of warm days, so I went back to the beach, and
I had a bit of a break though today. I figured where to be, and when, and somewhat
how for a while now. But, my success rate in catching the actual waves is still
embarrassingly low.

The problem is that I kept pitching on a wave. Every time I position myself
correctly for a wave, and paddle well, i kept going nose down a lot. So, naturally
I thought that I just get into the wave too late and I'd start to paddle a bit
further from the break. But, then the wave wouldn't form yet and it mostly would
just pass me by. Sometimes I'd succeed, but it felt very random.

So, I've been reading this book about surfing and the author explained body
weight distribution at a take off. He basically said, when a wave starts to pitch
your board and you about to pop up, put your weight at the back of the board.

This didn't make much sense to me. Because I was actually trying to position
myself at the middle of the board to reduce the drag, so I could paddle more
efficiently at the take off. Shifting your weight back would totally make paddling
harder.

But, then I tried it today and I managed to catch three, pretty decent 3-4 footers
in a row. One after another. I know I wouldn't be that lucky with my old technique.
They'd just pitch me and wash out. So, I've been thinking about it, and it
actually makes sense now.

See, when a wave starts to tilt your board, it doesn't actually push you in the
middle. Because a board has a rocker and it's a bit bent, most of the wave's
energy pushes you in the back of a board. So, if you try to put your weight in
the middle at the take off, the energy will just pitch you over the nose; exactly
the way it was happening all this time.

Hence, when I started to put most of my weight at the back of the board with my
back foot at the take off, this indeed increased the friction, but it also allowed
the wave to push the whole thing through the center of mass, rather than flipping
it over by using the board as a leverage.

So, the trick to me was simple. Get closer to the break and try to keep the board
horizontal at the take off by putting my weight on the back of it with my back
foot. This way, even if the wave jacks up quickly and there is a 3 foot fall in
front of you, you won't fall in it with your face forward. You will gently slide
down and actually have fun.

Well, that's about it. This is exciting! Can't wait for the next sunny weather
window to go try this new technique again; and maybe finally start to work on
my bottom turn!
