# Surfing: The Flinch

I didn't write for while here. I guess an update is due. A curious thing happened
three months ago. After upgrading to the proper shortboard my progress was climbing
up slowly. But, then it plateaued, then three months ago it went down. In fact,
at some point, my wave count dropped practically to zero. I started to flinch.

I can't say that self-learning surfing is particularly smart idea; especially
in my age. But, despite of this i was steadily climbing in my proficiency
the last year and a half. I expected that the growth will be slow, but for some
reason I didn't expect that I could regress.

I was going for a dip twice a week as usual. I was working out in the gym every
other day too to keep my general fitness level up. I could paddle out with an ease.
But, when it came to making a drop, i'd consistently either blew it, or flinch
and back away. At some moment, i was returning home with zero wave counts week
after week. It sucked.

I felt like i had more fun helplessly bobbling in white water with a log, than
trying to make it on perfectly surfable green shoulders, riding the best board
i ever had. One day it would feel like the waves are too big, another too small,
on the third day it'd feel to crowded. It didn't make any sense.

I don't know why this happened, what's the best way out of it. But, i've done
two things: firstly, i got myself swimming paddles and started to hit the swimming
pool two three times a week in addition to my surfing time. secondly, i made
myself a balance board and started practicing popups and balances on it.

Swimming with palm paddles doesn't provide as much load as surfing. But it helped
to build swimming stamina, and that's what you want. I started focusing more on
building up stamina than strength in my heavy lifting too. This actually helped
a fair bit. I started to feel like I had more steam left for paddling into a wave
after paddling out to a break. More energy means I could gain slightly more speed
coming into a wave. Which definitely helped.

But, i feel that the balance board made most of the difference. I cut it out of
a sheet of plywood roughly to the same dimensions as my shortboard. I even glued
on an old tail pad to mimimc the feeling. And then i started practicing popup
and balancing on this mockup every morning.

Curiously enough, even just two three good, focused reps, helped to imprint better
mechanics in my body. And I think this helped to free my brains when it came to
surfing in the actual thing. Instead of stressing up about saving energy and
focusing on my body doing the right thing too much, I'd focus on being in the
right place at the right time and then watching what the wave does.

I still fail a lot. But i feel like i've climbed out of zeros and slowly getting
back up. It feels good to punch through this wall. And also feels good to drive
home with a grin on my face now and then.

Will see where this will get us.
