# Do Not Work With Insecure People

Most of us, at some point, read an article named something like "don't work with a-holes" or "don't hire jerks". And although, intuitively, most of the subjects those article cover make total sense, I personally find them quite unsciency.

My problem with them is that words like "a-hole" and "jerk" are quite vogue in their meaning. Also, they are often misused. It almost seems that every time someone doesn't particularly like someone else's behavior they call them an a-hole. Because, you know the rule: the one who calls someone an a-hole first has the right to take the moral high ground in the rest of the conversation.

When you operate with such vague empirical maters, it's hard to grasp the actual underlaying processes. So, I thought, maybe I could try to explain such group dynamics through a more established terminology. And maybe, that will shade some light onto the underlaying principles and help someone to identify troublesome individuals more precisely.

In my opinion, the core of the problem is actually in what is called "insecurity". And when we are talking about insecurity it is crucial to understand the difference between insecurity and low self-esteem.

See, at any point in time, there are always people who are more confident and less confident than you. Some people think pretty low of themselves, and some others, well, have pretty high view of their own image. The important thing to understand is that confidence on its own does not define a person's negative behavior. An individual with a low self-esteem can demonstrate an assertive behavior and ask for help from those who they deem more confident and experienced. And the other way around is also true, a highly confident person, can always offer help to those who, in their view, are struggling.

The problem starts when you add the sense of insecurity into the mixture. Insecure people with low self-esteem will guilt-trap those who are above them on every corner. They won't try to grow and become better at what they do. Instead, they will try to drag more successful people down. And the same way, a high self-esteem person with a great dial of insecurity will try to do his best to not let anyone below them to raise. They will put them down on every step of the way, demoralize and do everything in their power to prevent others from evolving. That what you call a classical "a-hole" model.

As you can see from this demonstration, the issue is actually more systemic than it's usually portrayed in mass media. Problem is that insecure people see others as rivals and competitors in life. And that include you too my friend. Technically it doesn't matter where an insecure person is on the confidence scale, they will sabotage whatever it is you're trying to accomplish in life. You can build and infinitely awesome piece of machinery and they will just casually toss a wrench in it. That is the cornerstone of their behavior.

See, most of normal human beings know that there is enough good for everyone. We know that it is okay and very important to help each other; that it is the basis of a sustainable society. Unfortunately, insecure individuals don't see the world this way. They are socking in fear of any competition. And that what turns them into "a-holes" and "jerks" and "boner killers" when they can't get their way or feel threatened by others.

So, my advise, instead of watching out for vague "a-holes" and "jerks", try to identify insecure people. Remember that you are a human being, just like everyone else. You have feelings and you can get mad at someone for whatever reason. You might even go as far as calling them an a-hole, but that doesn't mean that this person can't be a valuable contributor to your causes. Insecure people, on the other hand, even if they won't show directly their jerkiness (passive-agressive characters for example), will, most definitely sabotage your work and leave you frustrated. Because that what they do.

So, don't work with insecure people.